# LibXML2

`LibXML2` provides a library to process XML content. The library also comes pair of command
line tools - `xmllint` and `xmlcatalog`. The `xmllint` tool is able to check an XML file for
well formedness and optionally validate it through a DTD. The `xmlcatalog` tool used to
manipulate the XML catalogs resource, which is where DTDs and other global resources may be
stored.

This repository contains a port of the library to RISC OS, continuing the original porting work
in the early 2000s. The command line tool has the same usage as under other platforms, so the
primary documentation at http://xmlsoft.org/ should be consulted for its use.

RISC OS specific features of this port:

* Throwback is available with the `--throwback` option for errors and warnings generated by
  the linting process.
* Catalogs are found through the `XML$CatalogFiles`, or `SGML$CatalogFiles` variables, which
  contain a space separated list of catalog files.

## Building

To build there are sources inside the RISC OS directory which should be able to be
built with the AMU tool:

On non-RISC OS systems:

    cd RISCOS
    riscos-amu -f MakefileLib,fe1 export
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=xmllint
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=xmlcatalog
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=testAutomata
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=testC14N
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=testHTML
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=testReader
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=testRelax
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=testSAX
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=testURI
    riscos-amu -f MakefileTools,fe1 TARGET=testXPath

or:

    cd RISCOS
    ./build-binaries.sh

## Updating to the latest upstream version

- Clone the libxml2 repository at https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/libxml2
    - `git clone https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/libxml2.git`
- Check out the tag for the version to be used.
    - `git checkout v2.9.12`
- Build it, to ensure that it works and generate necessary headers with the right defines and version numbers.
    - `./autogen.sh`
    - `make`
- In this repository, checkout the branch `vendor`.
    - `git checkout vendor`
- Create a new branch in the form `vendor-<X>.<Y>.<Z>`.
    - `git checkout -b vendor-2.9.12`
- Run the `copy-libxml2.sh <directory>` to update the sources to the this version.
    - `./copy-libxml2.sh ~/external/libxml2`
- Add any extra files that have been created and commit the changes.
    - `git add *.c *.h include/libxml/*.h`
    - `git commit -m "Import of version 2.9.12"`
- Merge the branch into the vendor branch.
    - `git checkout vendor`
    - `git merge vendor-2.9.12`
- Check out the master branch to return to the current version of the OS.
    - `git checkout master`
- Create a new branch for merging in the vendor branch in the form `merging-<X>.<Y>.<Z>`.
    - `git checkout -b merging-2.9.12`
- Merge in the vendor branch.
    - `git merge vendor-2.9.12`
- Link any new files into the RISC OS file structures.
    - `./link-upstream.sh`
- Update the `MakefileLib,fe1` to add any extra files that need building or exporting
- Build everything, from clean.
    - `cd RISCOS`
    - `./build-binaries.sh --clean`
- Fix any breakages caused by conflicts in the merge, and repeat.
- Add new files which are linked by the build process
    - `git add c/* h/* include/libxml/h/*`
- Commit the merged version of the vendor branch.
    - `git commit`
- Update the `VersionNum` file with a new version number.
- Test the new version and add any changed files.
- Commit changes to the merging branch.
    - `git commit`
- Merge into the master branch, and tag in the form `libxml2-<X>.<Y>.<Z>`.
    - `git checkout master`
    - `git merge merging-2.9.12`
    - `git tag libxml2-2.9.12`
- Push the changes to the repository.
